---
layout: post
title: "StartupHouse"
subtitle: "A Circus of Dreamers, Fools, and Hackers"
category: writing
tags: writing
comments: true
image_cover: true
image_url: /posts/2013/08/startuphouse.jpg
image_alt: "StartupHouse Wall of Fame"
---

Today marks the three-month mensiversary of my impetuous love affair with the shy temptress ever shrouded in fog, a courtship which began long before I caught a glimpse of her majestic, golden mane or stood awestruck at her steep, voluptuous curves. During what would be known in my journal as the Great Summer Fling of 2011, I fell dangerously in love with la demoiselle. It was love at first sight, and her tender loins left quite an unforgettable impression. Even after I left for what I equate to Mordor, she would speak of untold riches and opportunity, and so after an early graduation I decided to pursue her promise of romance and arrived, as impassioned as any young lad should find himself at a turning point in his life, in the city of San Francisco.

It was only through a single loose personal connection that I escaped the grim fate of the homeless who plague the streets like the colorful (albeit possessed) ghosts in Pac-Man. With little to my name and few I could call friends in the city, I found myself, a mere week after swearing off working for The Man and abandoning all sense of security, standing in front of an unassuming door to a warehouse with an eccentrically grotesque decal of some half-man, half-snake monster that my contact had called *StartupHouse*. Just as I knocked on the door, something stirred on the nearby bench. It was another homeless guy, his back now facing me as his pants slid to reveal a crack so wide he started looking more or less like the serpentine manbeast on the wall. I was about to turn around and leave, thinking this was some crack den, when Pierre opened the door.

“Hi, welcome to StartupHouse!” he greeted, gesturing for me to go inside. Little was I prepared to fall in love again and even less so to discover that this rundown abode would become the home I’ve been looking for all along.

- - -

True to its name, StartupHouse provides temporary living accommodations generally for startup-oriented or entrepreneurially minded individuals from all over the world. It operates like a hostel, but as a regular patron (and now staff) I’ve drawn the conclusion that this place can only be aptly described as a circus. Granted, I’ve never been in a circus, yet I’m certain that residents past and present would agree that the comparison is justified in light of all the outlandish events and extraordinary people that have transpired and passed by here, respectively.

The founder wasn’t kidding when he said that StartupHouse, now a little more than a year old, is an MVP (Minimum Viable Product). A few nights after my arrival there was a suspected scabies turned fleas turned mosquitoes outbreak. Days after the the kitchen started flooding, so water availability was intermittent. Eventually half the lights went out and it wasn’t cost effective to fix them, so temporary paper lantern fixtures were installed, hilariously turning the common area into a makeshift zen garden. Car break-ins are rampant, hobo drama is daily routine, and someone was even mugged at gunpoint. Yet despite these obvious shortcomings, most people I’ve had the pleasure of meeting here were sad when it came time for their departure. It’s a nonverbal agreement at StartupHouse that you’re not staying here for comfort but for the company, because you’re here to meet and be around other people who are also aspiring to make the world a better place on their own terms.

It wasn’t until I spent some time at StartupHouse that I truly understood why entrepreneurship comes so naturally to Silicon Valley. Some may argue for its location, but to me it’s the people who remain the single most important factor in formulating an entrepreneurial hotspot. Having lived in Los Angeles and Pittsburgh for a substantial amount of time, I can say without a doubt, with newfound friends from Europe, Asia, and Australia and the evident continuous influx of international enterpreneurs, that there is no place like San Francisco and Silicon Valley for entrepreneurship, because whereas the people and the culture elsewhere tend to dismiss and reject the risk inclined and the changemakers, we embrace and celebrate them here.

In a way, StartupHouse serves as a microcosm of that spectacular circus run by the clowns and jugglers and firespitters of the world, people who don’t belong anywhere else but are capable of the most amazing human feats. There’s Ashley McCartney, my best friend and one of the most driven and passionate people I know working with Hub Ventures in the social impact space. There’s Michael Lovelady, an SEO expert who’s putting aside contracting to build a startup using his domain knowledge with an ex-Apple UX designer. There’s Ben Longstaff, a software engineer with a Ph.D. in robotics who works at a startup and actually spins fire like a boss. There’s Josh Rio, a Kiwi former professional skateboarder who’s cranking out the next big mobile offering in event discovery. There’s Rose Jeantet, an ambitious French developer who’s going through an incubator for her startup Hedolist to empower people. There’s Zane Holloway, the most incredible Aussie UI designer and Jimmy Neutron’s IRL doppelgänger who wants to create a social marketplace for tattoo artists. Founders of numerous up-and-coming startups like Kickfolio, Instacart, and Kickstarter’s latest darling LIFX have also stayed here and left their fingerprints. The list goes on and on.

It’s absolutely awe-inspiring to be in such great company every single day. I’ve never felt so motivated to push my limits as a designer, a developer, and an entrepreneur. It’s an environment I wish I had in college, one where those who strive to create meaning in the world get to gather and share ideas and embrace the entrepreneurial spirit with a sickening level of fervor.

Here we embrace the dreamer for his grand vision, the fool for his unexpected insight, and the hacker for his swift execution. It’s a circus of freaks and geeks living and working together in harmony, feeding off each other’s passion for making a difference. In the end, that’s what makes Silicon Valley so special, and that’s why I feel right at home at StartupHouse.
