---
layout: blog
title: "Baba's Day"
subtitle: "I Love My Dad"
category: writing
comments: true
image_url: /posts/2013/08/baba.jpg
image_alt: "My Dad"
---

*This post was originally posted June 16th this year [on Medium][post], but as I'm currently in Taiwan and it's actually Father's Day here, I thought it appropriate to syndicate it on my blog for a new audience.*

[post]: https://medium.com/whos-your-daddy/d216622e44cb

- - -

Growing up in Taiwan, instead of the third Sunday of every June, I knew Father’s Day by a different date: August 8, appropriately observed on the eighth day of the eighth month because the number 8 and the month of August are both pronounced bā in Mandarin Chinese, and if you put them together (i.e., bābā), it sounds close to bàba, which is what we called our dads as kids (the Mandarin equivalent of “papa”, so to speak).

Father’s Day (even when it was in its Baba form) was never really celebrated with much fanfare in my family, but if I had to venture a guess as to why, it was probably because 1) I was brought up to appreciate my father and what he’s done for me on a daily basis, and 2) it made no sense for a recently immigrated Chinese family to observe Eight-Eight Day on some random Sunday in June.

- - -

My father is a very flawed man. He’s one of the most introverted people I know, an unwitting slave to routine and the greatest adversary of change. He possesses an explosive short temper, and his lack of patience borders on the psychotic. He can’t cook, doesn’t really have any hobbies, prefers spending his leisure watching television, and keeps mostly to himself even around friends and family. To top it off, I recently learned from my mom that he has a moderate-to-severe hoarding problem.

But despite his imperfections, he is a great husband and father.

He moved the family to the United States to afford my brother and me a quality higher education. He has put food on the table for our family of four for over twenty years, through periods of unemployment and numerous soul-sucking jobs. He taught me with his stern yet caring style of parenting that it’s never okay to hurt the ones you love. He was there when I took my first step, and he was there when I received my college diploma. He took care of me when the world was too much for me to handle.

Most importantly, he provided me with enough support and opportunities so I can live my life the unpredictably-risky-yet-rewarding way I envision, to pursue my passions on my own stubborn terms, and to make my mark on this world with wild, reckless abandonment. I’ve lived everyday with gratitude for all the things my dad has done for me, and I owe him everything for where I stand today. No amount of words come close enough to describe my love for this man, but I hope this post serves as a small token of appreciation and acknowledgment for being my dearest father for the last twenty-two years.

I love you, Baba. (Oh, and if you’re reading, please throw some of that old junk mail away. It’s kind of weird and gross.)
